Welcome back everyone in this lesson.
We are going to talk about how we can use the Apollo client to replace redux in terms of managing our
local state inside of our application now.
Up until this point we've only used Apollo to fetch data from our graph.
You all server but it turns out that Apollo can actually also help us manage store query and mutate
local data and it's going to follow pretty much the exact same format in terms of pulling it out and
then setting values into the local state as we've been doing here.
In terms of our queries to our graph you all back in now the reason that Apollo does this is because
it wants consistency.
And the reason why you don't want to mix redux and Apollo together is because you want all of your code
to be unified in terms of that unit directional data flow and you want a single source of truth.
So if for example we were using redux in certain parts of our application and Apollo and others well
it would be awkward because what happens if we pass some data inside of our graph.
Q All right query we fetch some collection items down let's say another component modifies it and it
stores it in redux Well what's the point of that if that data is not the same in our back.
So that's the main issue with using libraries like redux and Apollo together you mainly want to leverage
using Apollo as your main source of local state management.
And we can actually do it.
It's a little bit weird because it's different from what we might be used to but I promise you that
with practice it will definitely make sense now for us to do this.
The first thing we're going to do is we have to instantiate some local value for our state.
So pretty much like the initial value of our reducer is that we were used to setting up we've got to
do something similar with our local.
So how that works is we actually do it on the client and the client actually leverages the cache in
order to do that.
The cache is the local storage know how we do this is we can actually say client dot right data and
we want to do that in the index just because when our app initiates and our client gets created for
the first time we want to immediately write this data into our client and we want to instantiate this
with some data as the property and then the value of data will be the object that has all the keys that
we're trying to store.
So for us because we want to replace the card dropdown hidden value we're just going to say hidden and
we're going to set this by default to true if you want to be more explicit you can say this is card
hidden actually let's do that maybe it's a little bit more explicit.
So let's just a car hit it now that we have this card hidden true value.
We actually need to figure out how we can make a mutation that lets us modify this.
So we've seen queries.
The other thing we have access to is mutations and mutations is pretty much as it sounds.
It mutates some data.
So what we're going to do in order to do that is we have to make a new folder that is going to hold
the code that contains these mutations and we're going to put it inside of our source.
And this new folder is gonna be called graft.
Well now inside of this graft fuel folder we are going to make a new file called resolves Doc j ust
and why it's called resolving this is because it is this object that we can pass to our client that
lets it know what values to resolve depending on what mutations or what queries get called from the
local client side.
Now if that sounds confusing don't worry.
Once we write it out it'll make more sense.
The first thing we're gonna do is we're gonna import in the GQ all tag from Apollo boost and what we're
gonna do now is we are going to actually define the type i.e. the schema that this local side is going
to use and get access to.
So as you remember when we looked at our schema inside of our actual playground These are the mutations
and queries that were available to us from our back.
Now of course there were no mutations here.
There were only queries but this schema is actually defined the same way that we're going to define
it here.
And what we're going to say is we're going to export out some const called type DFS standing for type
definitions and this is gonna be equal to our GQ tag where we're going to add any more values or types
that we want the client to have access to.
So of course what we're going to say is extend type mutation.
Now extend means something different inside of graft.
You know when we extend we're actually saying I want you to extend to the existing type of mutation
that might exist in the back.
So in the back in you server there is also this mutation that was written for any mutations that might
we might have access to now because we haven't written any mutations as you can see in our scheme of
our database.
We're not going to extend into anything really.
But if in the future we ever do amputations on the server we don't want to have to modify our code here.
So by extending it Graf Q all knows that if there's nothing that's perfectly fine.
Otherwise we're just going to add new mutations to what Apollo is aware that it can call now the one
that we're going to add is the toggle hidden because what we want to do is want to toggle that hidden
value now because this value will always be a boolean either true or false.
That's what this mutation is going to return.
So inside of this mutation definition we're gonna say that there's going to be this toggle cart hidden
mutation that always returns of boolean and we signify that with the exclamation mark now as far as
the actual resolve is concerned we are going to write it as this object and in this object we're actually
going to define what our mutations and what are queries as well as what additional types we might have
on our client side cache that Apollo has access to inside of this object.
So the first thing we're going to define is the new mutations we have access to.
So here what we're going to do is we're going to say capital mutation goes to this object where the
key of the actual mutation is the mutation we're trying to write.
So in our case it's toggle cart hit it.
Now in case you're wondering why this one is capital and this one is not.
It's because this one is a type definition and type definitions need to be capitalized or ideally they
should be.
They don't always have to be but they should be.
This is the actual mutation definition inside of our javascript.
So this one can be the regular camel case that we're used to now.
Here what we're going to do is we are going to actually write out this function and this function that
represents our mutation gets four arguments.
Now I'm going to walk through what they are but let's actually write them out first so we see what they
look like.
The first one is route.
The second one is args.
The third one is context.
And the fourth one is info.
Now we use these underscores just because that's how they do it inside of the Apollo docs.
But this root object represents the top level object that holds the actual type.
What do I mean by this.
Well if we look at our playground if we look at this item we know that this item has this collection
key.
And this means that this item belongs to this collection which is why we're able to query the items
from calling the collection itself and on the collection it also has this items key that gives it an
array of items implying that there's a relationship between these two types which is a back and concept.
Now what this means is that from the item if we were to write a resolve or on an item property on our
front end for example for a property that might not exist.
Like imagine if say we had some other thing that we might want to resolve from our item.
Right.
We would write it like this.
We're extending the item in our back end and let's say we have some additional property that we add
on here called Parents I.D..
Right.
I don't know why but just imagine that inside of here if we were to write this resolved or we could
actually write it like this and when we call this function where we call the property parent's I.D.
this root object would represent the parent which for us is this collection because of this relationship.
So that's all you really need to think about.
If you were to ever use of the root now in our case we're actually never gonna use it so there's no
real reason for us to dive too deep into it but just know that that's what this object represents for
anything else at the top level.
So in our case we're at the top level because our mutation is at the very highest level of our actual
cash object.
This is just gonna be an empty object so we're never gonna use it but we need it to just know what it
is.
The args object represents all of the arguments that we could possibly get access to inside of the mutation
meaning that if we look at our collection container when we passed this title into this query of get
collections by title this argument object would be equal to an object or title goes to that string.
So arguments is pretty much the variables that get passed into r mutation or query.
That's what this arguments object is.
The third is the context and the context is the thing that the Apollo client has access to which includes
the cache as well as the client itself.
So for us if we need to make any rights to the client we can do that and do structure off of the context.
Otherwise all we ever actually need is the cash object.
The last one is the info objects and this one just has information about our query or our mutation but
this one we're never really going to use.
I'm get a link for you a link to the Apollo docs so you can get a better look and more thorough explanations
and instances and examples right.
If you want it in our case we don't need it.
And honestly the reason why it's written this way is just because this is how this code is actually
written in the back in an Apollo wanted to be consistent with how people write graph.
Q Well servers in the back in so in our case all we really need to remember is that we need the args
and the cache and these are easy to understand.
So what we're gonna do is we actually first need to read from our cash the initial value or that cart
hit in value that we are setting and changing because we need to flip that value every time the toggle
cart hit and gets called.
So it's gonna be the same way that we made queries inside of our other containers.
We're going to define this contest gets cart hidden query which is equal to GQ Elle and us just simply
fetching the cart hidden property and in order to specify to Apollo that this is on the client side.
We use what's called a client directive.
This at Symbol followed by the client he will let Apollo know that anything calling this query is looking
for this car hidden value on the local cache not in our back.
So that's what's really cool about this.
So now in order for us to actually read from our cash we need to know that what we're getting back is
the data object and in order to actually do the query we'll say cash out read query and recreate gets
an object where the query is the actual query we're passing in if we want to pass a values like we did
into this query this get collections by item.
There's a variables property that comes in as well that we can pass it in like so right.
Which would be the object where the variable represents the same way that we passed it in side of here
so in our case we are just making this query forget the card hidden.
This will come back to us as the data object.
And of course the query itself can't hit hidden will be the property on the data object that has the
Boolean value that we want.
So we'll just structure that off right here and we'll say it's card hidden.
Right.
That's what it is and then what we want to do is we want to now update our cash with the reverse value.
Once we've gotten the value in order to do that we say cashed out right query which is the opposite
of re query.
And what we want to write to is we want to say the query goes that same query.
We're trying to get that same location in our database that we pulled from.
And we want to update it with our data.
Of that card hidden goes to the opposite value of our card hit in value.
So we're refreshing the value you can see the syntax kind of like when we call set state and we pass
in the property and the value that we want to set it to.
Right.
It's very similar.
You pass it as an object where the key value is what you're trying to change on your cash.
Finally what we'll do is we will return that new card hidden value that we have reversed.
Like so so that anyone calling our toggle card hidden resolve or is going to also get back this opposite
boolean value if they want to do something.
So now we've defined our resolve our and we've defined our type does we have to bring this into our
index us and put it on our client so let's import in our resolves and our typedef from our New Folder
graph Q slash resolves and we're just gonna pass them in as themselves in this object.
So let's say typed FS and resolves and now our client has access to these new mutations that we just
wrote so I know the syntax is a little weird and that's going to take some getting used to but we'll
honestly write enough of these mutations that you'll get used to this pattern.
It's really just a pattern that Apollo expects.
So now that we've written them let's actually use them inside of our application and through using them
hopefully it'll become more clear as to what's happening.
And as we write more because this is really just the case where the more we practice the better we'll
get at it.
So let's implement this in the next lesson.